---
layout: post
title:  "Why I think “If We Were Vampires” by is the best love song"
date:   2024-10-23
categories: jekyll update lobster
---

Why I think “If We Were Vampires” by Jason Isbell and the 400 Unit is the best love song

The song opens with “It’s not the long flowing dress that your in”, then talks about the light coming off of the lover’s skin, her temperament, her hand, and her nails. Although Jason is saying I love you not because of the XYZ, in actuality he is sneakily listing all of the things that makes her special. Some love songs treat the concept brashly, for example: “I am in love with the shape of you” or “Dear lord, when I get to heaven, please let me bring my man”. This not a jab at the aforementioned songs, because different people interpret love differently, and the popularity of the aforementioned songs demonstrates that the listeners resonate with song. Subtlety though, is the beauty of If We Were Vampires. Love is subtle, complicated, and with some exceptions, difficult to come by. When you have it, it is the lighting in the bottle, the “only sunshine”, the “dusk ‘til dawn”. The reality of love in my opinion is like what Mulaney said in one of his specials, it is not really “tonight is the night and how we only have tonight”, but more mundane with an occasional blend of drama. I love her because I like the way her looks in her dress; because she is a little afraid of the dark and constantly seeing through my bullshit, oh, and that one time she talked me off the roof. Jason talks about love in a very subtle way in the song, but what he is talking about is not subtle at all. Also look at me for quoting an ex-addict while talking about the work from another ex-addict. 

On the note of mistakes, I want to highlight another phrase from the song: “Maybe we'll get forty years together”. Jason is implying that this love is not a high school sweetheart situation and he and his lover probably have fell in and out of love multiple times before finding each other. This segments into the other genre of love songs - the break-up songs. Love is messy, Jason is not shying away from this fact. Other than the aforementioned roof talk, in the verse he sings about going out to smoke on the sidewalk and “Laugh at all the lovers and their plans”. I like the metaphor lighting in the bottle a lot when it comes to love, because love is undoubtedly beautiful and magical, but it also can be volatile and short-lived. 

Then it’s the vampire metaphor. It’s so weird when a love song talks about not being able to become vampires so they can be lovers forever and this is the reason why he loves her. It goes to the idea that you won’t love something if it is always there. People don’t appreciate oxygen and sunlight unless they desperately need it. Jason, ever the realist, is saying the reason why I love you is because our days and numbered, and if we are lucky maybe we can spend 40 years together. 40 years is a long time, and the listeners know that, but he is saying 40 years is too short for lovers. It’s oxymoronic. 40 years is too short to love someone, but you cannot love someone forever since you will start to take them for granted. Jason knows the feeling of love, which many songs talk about, but Jason articulates it in a very roundabout way, that I don’t think a lot of love songs do. Afterall, what is more roundabout than the idea of love?
